--- 
layout: post
title: Communications
tags: work culture
---

Ask any mechanic, machinist, or carpenter what the single most important thing that contributes to their success is, and what they are bound to tell you is "having the right tool for the job".  Humans excel in creating physical tools to accomplish a certain task.  From hammers to drive a nail to the Jaws of Life to pry open a car, the right tool will save time, money, and frustration.  It's interesting to note the contrast that people have such a hard time with <em>conceptual</em> tools.  Software designed to accomplish a specific task, or several tasks, is often forced into a role that it may not fit into, making the experience kludgy, like walking through knee deep mud.  

I've found this problem to be especially prevalent in business environments, where the drive to "collaborate" brings many varied and sundry applications into the mix.  While hurrying to the next great collaboration tool they forget to ask the absolute most important question: <em>What do we need this software to do?</em>  

To communicate effectively in a business environment, it is imperative to use the right tool for the job.  To determine what the right tool for the job is, you first have to ask yourself exactly what the job is.  Do you need ask a quick, immediate question from a co-worker?  Is there a more detailed project question that you need to ask, and maybe get the opinions of a few others too?  Do you have something that you need to let a large group of people know, maybe even the entire company?  Each of these tasks is best suited to a different tool.  Unfortunately, I've most often seen each of these tasks shoe-horned into email.

Email is a personal communications medium, best suited for projects or questions that you do not need immediate responses to.  There have been many times when I've gone through my inbox and found something that didn't grab my attention when it was needed, and by the time I looked at it was past due.  Email is asynchronous, ask a question, and wait for a response whenever the receiving party has time.  

If you do need immediate response, the best tool would be instant messaging.  IM pops up and demands the receiving person's attention.  When requesting something via IM, the person on the other end has to make a decision either to ignore you or to answer your question.  Long explanations are not a good fit for IM, but short, two or or three sentence conversations are perfect or it.  

When considering sending something out to the entire company, keep in mind that email is a *personal* communications medium.  Company wide email blasts are impersonal, and for the most part require no action on the part of the receiver other than to eventually read it.  A better tool for this job is an internal company blog, accompanied by an RSS feed.  RSS is built into all major browsers now, and could be built into the base operating system build for PCs.  Every single time I get something from our company green team or an announcement from the CEO, I can't help but think that a blog would be the best place for such formal, impersonal communications.  A blog could be archived for searching, new announcements broadcast through RSS, and best of all accessible when the intended receiver has the time and attention to best appreciate the content.  To me, company wide email is the same thing as spam, and for the most part, is treated as such.  

One other form of internal communications which is far, far too often maligned beyond recognition is shared documentation.  Technical documentation especially suffers from document syndrome, which is having a separate (often) Word file for each piece of documentation, spread out through several different directories on Windows shares, or worse on the local hard drive of whoever wrote it.  Such documentation should be converted to a wiki as soon as possible.  If you are writing a book, I hear Word is a fairly good tool to use.  If you are writing a business letter, again, great tool.  If you are documenting the configuration of a server, a word processor should not be launched.  Word (or OpenOffice) documents have a tendency to drift, and are difficult to access unless you are on the internal network.  Trying to access a windows share from my Mac at home through the VPN is something that I've never even considered trying.  A wiki, is perfectly suited for internal documentation.  They are a single central place to organize all documents in a way that makes sense, is accessible from a web browser, easy to keep up to date, and most importantly, searchable.  Need to know how to set up Postfix?  Search the internal wiki.  Need to know why this script creates a certain file?  Search the internal wiki.  Everything should be instantly searchable.  Perhaps search is not the most important feature of a wiki, perhaps the most important is the ability to link to other topics according to context.  I can get lost in Wikipedia at times, jumping from one link to another as I explore a topic.  The same thing can happen to internal documentation.  This script creates this document for this project, which is linked to an explanation of the project, which contains links to other scripts and further explanation.  Creating the documentation can seem time consuming, until you are there at 2AM trying to figure out why a script stopped working.  Then the hour spent writing the explanation at 2PM doesn't seem so bad.  

One of the first things I did when starting my job was to set up both a personal, internal blog and a shared wiki for documentation.  I used Wordpress for the blog, and MediaWiki for the wiki.  Both are excellent tools, and very well suited for their purpose.  If I were a manager, I'd encourage my team to spend 15 minutes or so at the end of the day posting what they did for the day in their personal blog.  Could you imagine the gold mine you'd have at the end of a year or so?  Or the resources for  justifying raises.  Solid documented experience with products and procedures, what works and what doesn't.  The employee's brain laid out.  

Internal moderated forums is something that I haven't tried yet, but I can see benefits to this as well.  They've been used on the Internet for years, and I can imagine great possibilities there, especially for problem resolution.  How about a forum dedicated to the standard OS build of PCs?  Or one for discussing corporate policies?  

Blogs, wikis, forums, and IM are tools who's tasks are far too often wedged into email.  If an entire organization begins to leverage using the right tool for the job, the benefits would soon become apparent.  Then you'd wonder why you ever did it the other way at all.  
