---
layout: post
title: 13 Virtues for 2013
tags: [life, personal]
date: 2012-12-31 10:49:11
---


Instead of looking back, I like to look forward. As a guide on how I'd like to live the next year of my life, here are Benjamin Franklin's famous 13 Virtues, written when he was 20:

1. Temperance. Eat not to dullness; drink not to elevation.
2. Silence. Speak not but what may benefit others or yourself; avoid trifling conversation.
3. Order. Let all your things have their places; let each part of your business have its time.
4. Resolution. Resolve to perform what you ought; perform without fail what you resolve.
5. Frugality. Make no expense but to do good to others or yourself; i.e., waste nothing.
6. Industry. Lose no time; be always employ'd in something useful; cut off all unnecessary actions.
7. Sincerity. Use no hurtful deceit; think innocently and justly, and, if you speak, speak accordingly.
8. Justice. Wrong none by doing injuries, or omitting the benefits that are your duty.
9. Moderation. Avoid extremes; forbear resenting injuries so much as you think they deserve.
10. Cleanliness. Tolerate no uncleanliness in body, cloaths, or habitation.
11. Tranquillity. Be not disturbed at trifles, or at accidents common or unavoidable.
12. Chastity. Rarely use venery but for health or offspring, never to dullness, weakness, or the injury of your own or another's peace or reputation.
13. Humility. Imitate Jesus and Socrates.

One of the many things I love about this list is not how it says to do things, but how it says to avoid things. For example, "Avoid trifling conversation", "waste nothing", and "cut off all unnecessary actions". I think there is something for everyone in this list. 
