--- 
layout: post
title: Starting Over 
date: 2008-04-22 10:16:25
tags: life
---

My wife wanted me to read something that she was writing the other day, so I sat down at her laptop on our table and read through it. While I was there, I happened to glance at her email, an old hotmail account, and noticed that she has emails going all the way back to ‘01. A quick glance at my gmail tells me that there is no way I can tell how far back my email goes, but I'm pretty sure that I've lost everything prior to ‘05 or so. I've been accused of having email ADD in the past, and I'm fairly certain there is a bit of truth to it. It seems to hold true for a lot of the technology in my life, I'm just never satisfied with it, and wind up tweaking, fiddling, and otherwise screwing around with my tools until they are either just right or completely screwed up and I throw the entire thing in the trash and start over.
  
This certainly holds true for my email, I have been through @aol.com, @hotmail.com, @yahoo.com, @mac.com, @inbox.com, @live.com, and finally, @gmail.com. It also holds true for my web sites. I've started 10 or 15 web sites throughout the years, starting with a geocities site back in... what, '99 or so? If I'd have stayed on top of it, I'd have managed to compile a decent amount of writing in one place for 9 years. But, I have some form of technology ADD, and can not seem to be happy with any single system. When I discovered Linux, my curiosity really got the best of me. I must have downloaded and tested 100-125 distros. I installed so many that I started recording them on my old (now defunct) blog, jonstechblog.com, which evolved into the also now defunct, osvids.com. This went on until I "switched" to Mac, and I've been fairly happy with my operating system since. At least I know that there is nothing else out there that's any better than what I have now.
  
I've learned a lot about what I want out of my technology over the years, and I've found that when I find a good system, even if its not perfect, its best to stick with it until there is a significant reason to change. My curiosity has unfortunately led to my loosing data. Somewhere along the line I lost a lot of email, and a lot of writing, and there is no way to get that back. So, now, I've come to a point where I'm content in the systems that I have in place. My email works great, my OS works great, and I have an excellent blogging platform on a reliable host. I've started over far, far too many times, and it's time to settle down and shoot down some roots. Its time to stop worrying about the method of creation, and focus on the creative process itself.
